CTM-2140: Asset data points and linking documentation (#3478)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/dtm/asset-hierarchy-bundle/assets.md

---
weight: 20
title: Assets
layout: redirect
---

Once the [asset hierarchy](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#asset-hierarchy) is created by adding assets, they can be viewed in the **Assets** page.

### To view an asset {#to-view-an-asset}

> Select an asset in the **Assets** page to view the asset details in **Subassets** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select an asset in the **Assets** page to view the asset details in the *Subassets** tab.
```

> It shows all the subassets, child devices and asset properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It shows all subassets, child devices, and asset properties.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}

> The key-value pairs for complex properties in the **Subassets** page will be displayed in the order specified in the **Order** field of the property definition in the **Asset properties** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Subassets** page, the key-value pairs for complex properties will be displayed in the order specified in the **Order** field of the property definition in the **Asset properties** page.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

> 1. Select an asset from the hierarchy on the **Assets** page.

Reviewer: This is actually a duplicate of line 11.

> 2. The **Subassets** page contains the asset details, created and last updated time displayed at the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The **Subassets** page contains the asset details, such as the creation and last update time displayed at the top right.
```

> 3. Optionally [add subassets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#to-add-subassets), or [assign devices](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#to-assign-devices-to-an-asset) from the top bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Optionally, [add subassets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#to-add-subassets) or [assign devices](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#to-assign-devices-to-an-asset) from the top bar.
```

4. The asset name and description along with the icon are displayed at the top.

> All subassets and devices for this asset will be listed in the **Subassets** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All subassets and devices for this asset are listed in the **Subassets** section.
```

> 5. All the asset properties for this asset will be displayed on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. All asset properties for this asset are displayed on the right.
```

> 6. The asset hierarchy will be shown in the **Asset tree** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The asset hierarchy is shown in the **Asset tree** tab.
```

> 7. Optionally [add subassets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#to-add-subassets) using the options on the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, [add subassets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#to-add-subassets) using the options on the top right.
```

Reviewer: This is a duplicate of item 3, line 21?

> If the asset has a location, you can see it on the map under the properties section below its values. Click the full screen icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-resize-expand text-muted icon-20"></i> at the top right corner of the map to view it in full screen. To see the map, provide a value for latitude and longitude. You cannot modify the marker when viewing the asset. Edit the property in order to change the position of the marker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a location is specified for the asset, it is shown in the map under the properties section below its values. To see the map, provide a value for latitude and longitude.  Click the full screen icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-resize-expand text-muted icon-20"></i> at the top right corner of the map to view it in full screen. You cannot modify the marker when viewing the asset. Edit the property to change the position of the marker.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}

> The [Add asset](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#to-add-subassets) button is not visible for the last hierarchical level.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [**Add asset**](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#to-add-subassets) button is not visible for the last hierarchical level.<br>
```

> A warning message will be shown if one or more properties associated with the asset are not present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A warning message will be shown if one or more properties associated with the asset are not present.
```

> For complex properties, the keys will be ordered as specified in the property definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For complex properties, the keys will be ordered as specified in the property definition.
```

Reviewer: Already mentioned in line 14, but with more details.

{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

### To view the asset hierarchy {#to-view-the-asset-hierarchy}

> Select an asset in the **Assets** page to view the asset details in **Subassets** tab.

Reviewer: This is again a duplicate of line 11-15

It shows all the subassets, child devices and asset properties.
{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
The key-value pairs for complex properties in the **Subassets** page will be displayed in the order specified in the **Order** field of the property definition in the **Asset properties** page.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

> In the top right corner of the **Subassets** tab, you can [assign devices](#to-assign-devices-to-an-asset).

Reviewer: Again, more duplicates. The structure is still a bit messy.

![Subassets](/images/dtm/assets/dtm-assets-subassets-page.png)

You can view the hierarchy of the asset in the **Asset tree** tab. Initially the asset hierarchy is collapsed. Click the expand icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-forward text-primary icon-20"></i> to view the next level of subassets.

Click **Add asset** to add more subassets.

![Asset tree](/images/dtm/assets/dtm-assets-asset-tree-page.png)

### To create an asset {#to-create-an-asset}

> There are two options for creating assets in the DTM application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two options for creating assets in the DTM application, that is, via the UI and via REST API.
```

The following section describes how to create an asset via the UI.

> Alternatively, see [DTM Asset and Definition API documentation](https://cumulocity.com/api/dtm/) for using the DTM REST API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [DTM API documentation](https://cumulocity.com/api/dtm/) for using the DTM REST API.
```

As you define each hierarchy level of your new asset, you see a green check mark on each asset hierarchy level in the section on the left.

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}

> If there are validation errors on the page, they will be indicated by red highlights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are validation errors on the page, they are indicated by red highlights.
```

Reviewer: We use simple tenses, so present tense is ok in most cases to keep sentences and sentence structures simple.

Correct the required information to continue.

> If you are leaving the page abruptly, a confirmation dialogue box will be shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you leave the page abruptly, a confirmation dialog is shown.
```

You can view the newly created asset hierarchy in the **Assets** page.
Also see [viewing assets](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#viewing-assets).

In case of a bulk operation failure, the entire operation is rolled back. The user will be navigated to the main assets page in order to cleanup the entities created and to try the operation again.

> ### To assign devices to an asset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### To assign devices to an asset {#to-assign-devices-to-an-asset}
```

> When you create a new asset you have the option of assigning one or more devices to this asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a new asset you can assign one or more devices to it.
```

1. Click **Assign devices** in the **New asset** page.
2. The resulting dialog window lists all devices registered for the tenant. Select one or multiple devices and click **Assign**.

> 3. The dialog closes and you can continue creating the asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![Assigning devices to an asset](/images/dtm/assets/dtm-assets-assign-devices.png)

> To add a new device, add it through the Device Management application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New devices are added in the Device Management application.
```

Refer to [Registering devices](/device-management-application/registering-devices/) for further information.

{{< c8y-admon-info>}}
Only select devices which are part of the current asset.
If a device belongs to a subasset, then select it when you create the subasset.
{{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

#### To filter and select devices {#to-filter-and-select-devices}

> You can view, search or filter devices easily with the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view, search, or filter devices easily with the following options:
```

> 1. Columns shown in the grid specify the device details for each device. Click **Configure columns** at the top right to show or hide columns.

Reviewer: I would not use a numbered list here as these are not steps that must be followed in this order. Better use a bulleted list.

2. Click **Reload** to reload the page and display the latest list of devices present in the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} tenant.

3. Click **Sort** on the applicable columns to view the device data in either ascending or descending order.

4. To filter devices based on text, use the **Filter** option in the applicable columns. When a filter is applied, a notification will be shown at the top.

> 5. To clear the filters, click **Clear all filters**. To see the sort icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-sort-arrow icon-20"></i> and the filter icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-filter icon-20"></i> hover over each column.

Reviewer: The last information (on hovering) should be mentioned at the top. Or at least where filtering and sorting is described.

### To modify an asset {#to-modify-an-asset}

> Fields are marked editable by an edit icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-edit1 text-primary icon-20"></i>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To modify any of the asset details, click the edit icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-edit1 text-primary icon-20"></i>, enter new details and save.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify any of the asset details, click the edit icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-edit1 text-primary icon-20"></i>, enter the new information, and save it.<br>
```

> For an asset with a location, click or drag the marker to the preferred position to select the value for latitude and longitude on the map. Click the full screen icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-resize-expand text-muted icon-20"></i> at the top right corner of the map to enter full screen mode. To see the map, provide a value for latitude and longitude.

Reviewer: Not sure if this belongs here, as we already describe it at the top. At least, I would again first mention how to make the map visible (last sentence) and then how to make it full screen.

### To delete an asset {#to-delete-an-asset}

> To delete a subasset or device in the hierarchy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a subasset or device in the hierarchy, click the delete icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-editing-trash text-danger icon-20"></i> next to it and confirm. The delete icon appears when hovering over a row.
```

> 1. Click the delete icon <i class="dlt-c8y-icon-editing-trash text-danger icon-20"></i> next to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     {{< c8y-admon-info>}}

Reviewer: Remove the whole info section.

The delete icon only appears on hover of each row under the subassets section.
    {{< /c8y-admon-info>}}

> In the following dialog box, click **Confirm** to continue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Optionally select the checkbox in the dialog box to delete all subassets and devices for the selected asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, select the respective checkbox to delete all subassets and devices for the selected asset.
```
